localai cve-2024-2029 (#100)
google/security-testbeds: localai/cve-2024-2029/README.md

# requirements
1. install docker
2. install wget

# secure instance setup
```bash

> docker run -ti -p 8080:8080 --rm -d --name localaiSecure localai/localai:v2.10.0-ffmpeg-core
> ls whisper || wget wget "https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/resolve/main/ggml-tiny.bin?download=true" -O whisper
> docker cp whisper localaiSecure:/build/models/whisper
> docker cp whisper.yaml localaiSecure:/build/models/whisper.yaml

Reviewer: Please avoid using `docker cp` and mount a volume to make the required file available inside the container. If you don't want non-required files to be accessible from the container create a separate folder (eg. `models/`) and mount that.

```suggestion
whisper || wget wget "https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/resolve/main/ggml-tiny.bin?download=true" -O whisper
docker run -ti -p 8080:8080 --rm -d --name localaiSecure -v $(pwd):/build/models localai/localai:v2.10.0-ffmpeg-core
```

```

> # vulnerable instance setup

Reviewer: Please specify how to test the vulnerability in the secure instance context.

```suggestion
run `python3 poc.py` and check the response, it will return an error with a message similar to: `Invalid data found when processing input`.

# vulnerable instance setup
```

```bash

> docker run -ti -p 8080:8080 --rm --name localaiVulnerable -d localai/localai:v2.7.0-ffmpeg-core
> ls whisper || wget wget "https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/resolve/main/ggml-tiny.bin?download=true" -O whisper
> 
> docker cp whisper localaiVulnerable:/build/models/whisper
> docker cp whisper.yaml localaiVulnerable:/build/models/whisper.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ls whisper || wget wget "https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/resolve/main/ggml-tiny.bin?download=true" -O whisper
docker run -ti -p 8080:8080 --rm -d --name localaiVulnerable -v $(pwd):/build/models localai/localai:v2.7.0-ffmpeg-core
```

# requirements
1. install docker
2. install wget
3. download a test model:
    ```bash

>     mkdir whisper || true

Reviewer: Use the `-p` argument to avoid errors when file exists, this command shouldn't be needed anyway as you are assuming that the `whisper.yaml` file exists and the command is executed inside the testbed directory.
```suggestion
    mkdir -p whisper
```

    ls whisper/whisper || wget "https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/resolve/main/ggml-tiny.bin?download=true" -O whisper/whisper
    ```

# secure instance setup
```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose-safe.yml up
```
run `python3 poc.py` and check the response, it will return an error with a message similar to: `{"error":{"code":500,"message":"rpc error: code = Unavailable desc = error reading from server: EOF","type":""}}`.

# vulnerable instance setup
```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose-vulnerable.yml up
```

> run `python3 poc.py` to and check the response, it will print the `/etc/passwd` content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run `python3 poc.py` and check the response; it will contain the contents of `/etc/passwd`.
```

> # clean up the setups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# clean up
```

```bash

> rm whisper/whisper
> docker compose -f docker-compose-vulnerable.yml down
> docker compose -f docker-compose-safe.yml down

Reviewer: Shut down docker instances before cleaning up the model

```suggestion
docker compose -f docker-compose-vulnerable.yml down
docker compose -f docker-compose-safe.yml down
rm whisper/whisper
```
